1. INTRODUCTION
  1.1 Purpose:
The purpose of the school management system is to manage the information of the students. The user of the system includes teachers, principal and students. The information was stored securely in the cloud and the users can view the data. The principal has the permission to manage the system.
1.2 Scope:
The scope of the system revolves around three custom objects school, student and parent. Each object has records and fields. By clicking the records the details of the particular record was displayed. The school object has the count of the students, highest marks. It has two standard objects report and dashboard.  
1.3 Definitions, Acronyms and Abbreviations:
Object- It is compared to the table in the database.
Record- It is compared to the rows in the table.
Fields- It is compared to the columns in the table.
2. Overall Description:
2.1 Product Perspective:
From a product perspective, the school management system should have the following characteristics:
1. User Experience: The system should be easy to use and navigate.
2. Customize features: The system should be flexible and customizable to meet the specific needs.
3. Scalability: The system should be able to handle the growth.
4. Data Security: The data should be secured in a multitenant cloud environment.
5. Customer Support: As Salesforce provides CRM it ensures customer support.
2.2 Product Functions:

Class of use case	Use case	Description
Principal	Manage the system	Manage the system by viewing the other users activities.
Teacher	Reads, update the data of the system.	Assigned to the principal user and view, update the data of the system.
Parent 	Reads, updates the parent data.	Assigned to the principal user and create, read, update parent data 

2.3 Principal Actor:
Admin- a person who gives access who can view, edit and read data.
Developer – a person who satisfies the business requirement.
User- a person who use the business for their requirements and need.
 2.4 General constraints:
Data security and privacy: The system must protect data in multitenant cloud environment.
Scalability: The system must handle the changing requirements and environment.
Integration with other system : The system should not change the existing environment when we add or update the system.
3. Specific Requirements:
3.1 Functional Requirements:
1. Principal should have all the access to the system.
2. The other users should be assigned to the principal, so that the principal can manage the system.
3. The teacher can read, update the data of the system without reporting to the principal as the teacher was already assigned to the principal.
4. The parents can create, read and edit data of their records.
5. The custom objects should have the necessary fields and relationship.
6. The system should have two standard objects report and dashboard.
3.2 Performance Requirements:
(a) Should run on a machine with a 2.0 GHz processor and 4 GB of RAM.
(b) 90% of the responses should be within 1 second.
3.3 Design Constraints:
1. Security: The system should protect the data.
2. Fault Tolerance: The system should be able to handle crashes or power failure.
4. Future Extensions:
We can include extra features in the school management system. The extra features include:
•	Send information to parents through email templates.
•	Displaying the timetable for each class.  

MODULE DESCRIPTION

CREATING DEVELOPER ORG:
The first step to use Salesforce is to create a developer org by entering our details.
After that we can log in using the username and password.
CREATION OF CUSTOM OBJECTS:
Custom objects are created by the developer/admin to meet our business requirements.
School Management has 3 custom objects:
•	School
•	Student
•	Parent
Custom tab can be created by selecting the tab styles for the desired object.
Steps to create custom object:
1. Click object manager.
2. Select new.
3. Select custom object.
4. Enter the details of the object and save it. 
By following the above steps three custom objects were created.
CREATION OF SCHOOL MANAGEMENT APP:
Apps in Salesforce are a group of tabs that help the application function by working together as a unit. It has a name, a logo, and a particular set of tabs. The simplest app usually has just two tabs.
Steps to create the App:
1. From Setup, enter App Manager in the Quick Find and select App Manager.
2. Click New Lightning App.
3. Enter School Management as the App Name, then click Next
4. Under App Options, leave the default selections and click Next.
5. Under Utility Items, leave as is and click Next.
6. From Available Items, select Schools, Students, Parents, Reports, and Dashboards and move them to Selected Items. Click Next.
7. From Available Profiles, select System Administrator and move it to Selected Profiles. Click Save & Finish.

The available items will be represented as tabs in our App.
 
CREATION OF FIELDS AND RELATIONSHIP FOR CUSTOM OBJECTS:
STEPS TO CREATE FIELDS AND RELATIONSHIP:
1. Click the gear icon and select Setup. This launches Setup in a new tab.
2. Click the Object Manager tab next to Home.
3. Select School.
4. Select Fields & Relationships from the left navigation
5. Click New
6. Select the Text Area as the Data Type, click Next.
7. For Field Label, enter Address.
8. Click Next, Next, then Save & New.
9. Follow steps 1 to 3 and create two more Text type field - District & State.
10. Create URL type field & give Schoolwebsite as the field label.

1. SCHOOL OBJECT:
DATA TYPE	FIELD LABEL
Text area	Address
Text	District
Text	State
URL	School website
Phone	Phone Number
Roll Up Summary	Number of students
[master object-students]
[roll up-COUNT]
Roll Up Summary	Highest Marks
[master object-students]
[roll up-MAX]
[field to aggregate-Marks]

2. STUDENT OBJECT:
DATA TYPE	FIELD LABEL
Master Detail Relationship	school
Picklist	Results
[values-pass, fail]
Number	Class
Number	Marks



3. PARENT OBJECT:
DATA TYPE	FIELD LABEL
Text Area	Parent Address
Phone	Parent Number

CREATION ON PROFILE:
1.	From Setup enter Profiles in the Quick Find box
2.	Select Profiles.
3.	Click new, From the list of profiles, find Standard User (profile to clone) 
4.	For Profile Name, enter School Profile
5.	Click Save.
6.	While still on the School profile page, then click Edit.
7.	Scroll down to Custom Object Permissions and Give view all access permissions.
CREATING A USER:
1. From Setup, in the Quick Find box, enter Users.
2. Select Users.
3. Click New User.
4. Enter the user’s name Parents and (Your) email address and a unique username in the form of an email address. By default, the username is the same as the email address.
5. Select a User License as salesforce.
6. Select a profile as a School profile.
7. Check Generate new password and notify the user immediately to have the user’s login name and a temporary password emailed to your email.
8. Similarly follow the above steps and create 2 users as Teachers and principals.

By following the above steps three users namely Teachers, principals and Parents were created.
PERMISSION SET:
1.	From Setup, enter Permission Sets in the Quick Find box, then select Permission Sets.
2.	Click New.
3.	Give the name of the Permission set name as Principal permission and then under the object settings give all permissions for the all 3 custom objects and assign them to the Principal user.
As the three custom objects school, student and parent are assigned to the principal user he/she can view the changes made by them.
USER ADOPTION:
CREATE SCHOOL RECORD:
1.	Click on App Launcher on left side of screen.
2.	Search School Management App & click on it.
3.	Click on Schools tab.
4.	Click new button
5.	Fill all School record details.
6.	Click on Save Button.
VIEW SCHOOL RECORD:
By clicking any particular record we can view the details.
DELETE SCHOOL RECORD:
1.	Click on App Launcher on left side of screen.
2.	Search School Management App & click on it.
3.	Click on Schools Tab.
4.	Click on Arrow at right hand side on that Particular record.
5.	Click delete and delete again.
CREATE REPORT:
1.	In School Management App click Reports tab.
2.	Click New Report.
3.	Select the report type as School with students for the report.
4.	Click start report.
5.	Customize your report, then save and run
6.	Give report name – Schools with Students Report
7.	Click Save
After creating the report the user can view the report of the students in the school.
